---
layout:     post
title:      经典图网络
subtitle:   图神经网络 
date:       2020-03-04
author:     conan
header-img: img/post-bg-cook.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
    - 图神经网络 
    - GNN
---
## Network Embedding:graph embedding (GE) and graph neural network (GNN)
* summed by 《Representation Learning for Attributed Multiplex Heterogeneous Network》
### 1.DeepWalk 
which generates a corpus on graphs by random walk and then trains a skip-gram model on the corpus.
* 随机游走生成节点构成（类似自然语言序列）序列，再skip-gram model
### 2.LINE 
learns node presentations on large-scale networks while preserving both firstorder and second-order proximities
* 保留一阶和二阶近似？？？

### 3.node2vec
designs a biased random walk procedure to efficiently explore diverse neighborhoods
* ？？？

### 4.NetMF
is a unified matrix factorization framework for theoretically understanding and improving DeepWalk and LINE.
* 矩阵分解？？？

## Heterogeneous Network Embedding
### 1.HNE
jointly considers the contents and topological structures in networks and represents different objects in heterogeneous networks to unified vector representations

### 2.PTE
constructs large-scale heterogeneous text network from labeled information and different levels of word co-occurrence information, which is then embedded into a lowdimensional space

### 3.metapath2vec
formalizes meta-path based random walk to construct the heterogeneous neighborhood of a node and then leverages a heterogeneous skip-gram model to perform node embeddings

### 4.HERec 
[31] uses a meta-path based random walk strategy to generate meaningful node sequences to learn network embeddings that are first transformed by a set of fusion functions and subsequently integrated into an extended matrix factorization (MF) mode

## Multiplex Heterogeneous Network Embedding
### 1.PMNE
[22] proposes three methods to project a multiplex network into a continuous vector space. 
### 2.MVE
 [30] embeds networks with multiple views in a single collaborated embedding using attention mechanism. 
### 3.MNE 
[43] uses one common embedding and several additional embeddings of each edge type for each node, which are jointly learned by a unified network embedding model.
### 4. Mvn2vec 
[32] explores the feasibility to achieve better embedding results by simultaneously modeling preservation and collaboration to represent semantic meanings of edges in different views respectively.

## Attributed Network Embedding
### 1.TADW
[41] incorporates text features of vertices into network representation learning under the framework of matrix factorization. 
### 2.LANE 
[16] smoothly incorporates label information into the attributed network embedding while preserving their correlations. 
### 3.AANE 
[15] enables a joint learning process to be done in a distributed manner for accelerated attributed network embedding. 
### 4.SNE 
[20] proposes a generic framework for embedding social networks by capturing both the structural proximity and attribute proximity. 
### 5.DANE 
[9] can capture the high nonlinearity and preserve various proximities in both topological structure and node attributes. 
### 6.ANRL 
[44] uses a neighbor enhancement autoencoder to model the node attribute information and an attribute-aware skip-gram model based on the attribute encoder to capture the network structure.

